its so strange. One moment you would be riding the high wave and the next moment you are just crashed back to the earth. Yesterday I was watching the interview of in-mobi guy and out he goes with a gun in hand against all the VC and establishment. I guess success gives you a license to speak and malign anyone. I remember G Ramesh cautioning against using "I" a lot in any talk. I did this, I did that.

Everyone has stories of their struggle to tell. As if they cannot even speak f they do not get the stories of their struggle out of their chest. We saw those days, oh we did not know what to do. Mother fuckers, you were burning other people's money. You wrote those pathetic 60 page business plans replete with nice diagrams and imaginary revenues and conned people in funding you. All the while thinking smugly oh the crap. if it does not work out then I will just go back to my consulting job. I have IIT on my resume, I have IIM on my resume. No mother fuckers, you do not know a crap about struggle. You do not know real struggle.

You bozos were burning other people's money, smug in the knowledge that you can go back to your day jobs after doing nothing and all the while calling this your learning. Learning my ass! 

we all feel nice when we think we struggled. We struggled is our way of saying that we did not get it easy. We did not eat from a sliver spoon and we slogged it hard and hence we deserve every bit of the success we have. 

Does it really happen like a plan? When you set out the objectives, create a to do list and tick off the items one by one?

Loneliness - There is a disease called Black Berry syndrome. People suffering  from it check their mail every 5 mins. Maybe in future it will be called iPhone syndrome.
I used to be busy. Sometimes during release I will get up in night and check mails. The curse of working across timezones. Every morning I had 160 mails to delete and 20 to read. Now no body sends me any mails. I am past that age when friends send you mail and I am not in any Job. You wake up and you check your inbox. There are a couple of mails from stupid spammers and thats it. It is as if you are dead for the whole world. No one knows you. No one sends you a message. You are not alive any more. 

Innovation in incremental. That is the way evolution works. Ideas light years ahead of their times have no place in present. Sophus Lie and Lie algebra is an example. To make an idea work you need an ecosystem as well.
The present has some problems, those problems are solved and a new reality emerges. After some time that new reality becomes far removed from old reality and feels like a jump. However the advance was incremental only. 

is idea the big thing? can we really think of a smashing idea that no one else has thought of? Carl Sagan talks about how the aliens would look like in the atmosphere of Jupiter. No they would not be humanoids and they may be kilometers across and floating would be the right strategy to survive in jupiter's atmosphere. Our imaginations are bound by what we see around us. we cannot just think of something really unique out of blue. 2001 A Space Odyssey - They never showed how the aliens look because it is not possible with our bounded rationality.


Even if you could think something unique out of the blue, there should be an ecosystem around you to make it work. Suppose you could think machine to machine video calling in 1999 - it is a nice idea (mother of all demonstrations) but the ecosystem is not around you to make it a reality. Machine to machine  video calling for everyone will become a reality when every machine starts shipping with a camera and connections are fast enough and all the problems with P2P have been sorted out.


All ideas look the same. How do you pick a winner idea? It is the same thing as picking a winner stock. You are always miffed when you see some stocks go up that could have been bought for pennies. Not many people bought Satyam when it nose dived to 7. After all what was the harm in buying a stock at 7 INR that was rock solid few months ago? But when you are at 7, you do not know if you are going to go to 2 or 12. If you knew you would have made a lot of money.

However most of analysis (and in fact most of the analysis of analysts as well) is post facto analysis. Analysis after the facts are published. Now you must have heard of everyone is an expert after the facts are published. No one can predict the future. If it were easy to predict future based on your present work then hot mail guy should be making most of the money now. He did internet when no one even knew internet. (Really, only the paranoid survive has 3 pages of explanation on what is internet) Bill gates wrote a vision book in 1996 and then utterly failed to see the rise of consumer devices. I am sure he had access to the best information in the world.

That is why portfolio theories are so much in vogue. spread the risk. You do not know the risk from the west end of an east facing horse so just get on spreading it every where. That is what all of us do. Buy 10 different things. 

The problem is, you have no sense of which way is up when you are in middle. Sure, idea X looks a killer but then we are not clairvoyant. We do not have the luxury of a future looking glass. So what do we do? Most of the time we just bite the bullet, back our hunches and invest time and resource backing what we feel is right. surely you did not feel all of them analysts were experts, did you? 

Everything makes tremendous sense in hind sight. Slowly the  ideas become more concrete. The details are hashed out and is no longer an abstract thing. we can think vague ideas that only get concrete with time. Even heisenberg could not have understood the impact of revolution he was about to create. He handed out the paper to Max Born saying "I have a crazy idea"

Why media insists on legends and process of creating legends. Who is interested in a boring  story? The magic, the fact that something was created out of thin air is marvelous, that is what sells. Sweat does not sell. Discover of DNA helix is probably the most honest account of a scientific discovery I have read. Real science is like that. False starts, false hopes, jealousy, intrigues, irritating colleagues, self doubts, dark periods, rays of hope, luck and above all building on the work of others.


 This is about mental toughness. You are in a void. No system and no structure to support you. Every idea may look defeated. Leap of faith is required. Why red bus is never a good business.


Bombay Trip - looking for fund (20 jan 2012)
 
coming back - womb position

Mumbai angels fraud - 


I do not want to code, I do not want to think, I just want some one to tell me what to do 

Nightmare - shivering under a pomegrante tree and rains 
Next version of nightmare - Tim tim walking and putting a blanket on me

Anything you want to do looks undoable
Everything has been done


Just a man and his will to survive
Electronics store is a dream killer

Meeting with Mr. X, the adman (31 Jan 2012)


come to think of it, starting anything is crazy. You can never start a venture after doing a market research. It is plain crazy. 
You are a new guy. what can you offer that five thousand years of civilization cannot offer? You realize the number of people toiling over a certain aspect of life only when you start researching it. I would have never thought that Ad agencies actually employ people who would watch Face Book and twitter streams for you. That aspect of life was completely hidden from me till I started researching Ad agency business a little more. 

Then you meet super confident people. Sort of people who have an absolute unshakable belief in what they know. Like Bernard shaw said in Arms and Man, the "Jejune credulity of their own beliefs  and the unworthiness of the whole world in disregarding them. These people would make face at you and tell you, but this is nothing new. I have not heard anything new so far. Maybe Mr X, part of the reason is because you are not even listening. The moment someone utters a keyword you try fitting new information into what you already know and simply discard the new bits.

To appreciate anything, you need to have an open mind. Maybe when I am talking about a new way of doing things, it is not very polished in my mind. I am not very clear on positioning and I still have not done enough iterations to make it very clear and precise. Initially ideas are vague only and you tend to go in many different directions. They need time to crystallize. 


So Mr X told me Samsung is already using 32 tools and that too only for mobile. There are agencies who provide people to monitor social network data. DocoMo already has 3 million Facebook fans and Myntra.com is already generating 15-17 percent of sales from FaceBook. Now we are not talking anything new. Against this backdrop, how the heck do we expect that anyone will use our platform? No one will. we are fucking doomed man. That coming from someone who is so freaking knowledgable about the space. 

Paid reviews, PR - indegene Ogilvy - finally does not buy you anything. So what do we do? drop what we are doing? Nah. As a user I feel pain. I do not give a fuck about what brands think. Maybe it is time to think as a consumer and how other consumers can solve my pain. who is allowing me to fix my creaking samsung refrigerator - No One. That is good enough for me.


Now I am beginning to make some theories again.

- Never talk to people who are very sure of things/themselves
- Never talk to people who try to preach/pontificate  (run away when the preaching starts)
- Never talk to people who tell you why it will not work and then do not give you anything other than their "gut" feeling. Well my gut feeling vs. yours. I take mine, thank you.

Do not tolerate the fools in name of business and courtesy. let's not.


















